new(docs): update getting started pages (#1333)
falcosecurity/falco-website: content/en/docs/getting-started/kubernetes-quickstart.md

aliases:
- ../../try-falco-on-kubernetes
- try-falco/try-falcosidekick-on-kubernetes
weight: 20
---

> First, make sure you have access to a test Kubernetes cluster running with Linux nodes, either x86_64 or ARM64. Note that using Docker Desktop on Windows or MacOS will not work for this purpose. Also, you will need to have [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/) and [helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) installed and configured as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, ensure you can access a test Kubernetes cluster running with Linux nodes, either x86_64 or ARM64. Note that using Docker Desktop on Windows or macOS will not work for this purpose. Also, you will need to have [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/) and [helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) installed and configured.
```

> ## Install Falco

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Deploy Falco
```

> First, install the helm repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, install the helm repository:
```

```sh
helm repo add falcosecurity https://falcosecurity.github.io/charts
helm repo update
```

> Then install Falco

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then install Falco:
```

```sh
helm install --replace falco --namespace falco --create-namespace --set tty=true falcosecurity/falco
```

> And check that the Falco pods are running

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And check that the Falco pods are running:
```

Create a file and call it `falco_custom_rules_cm.yaml` with the following content:

```yaml
customRules:
  custom-rules.yaml: |-
    - rule: Write below etc
      desc: An attempt to write to /etc directory
      condition: >
        (evt.type in (open,openat,openat2) and evt.is_open_write=true and fd.typechar='f' and fd.num>=0)
        and fd.name startswith /etc
      output: "File below /etc opened for writing (file=%fd.name pcmdline=%proc.pcmdline gparent=%proc.aname[2] ggparent=%proc.aname[3] gggparent=%proc.aname[4] evt_type=%evt.type user=%user.name user_uid=%user.uid user_loginuid=%user.loginuid process=%proc.name proc_exepath=%proc.exepath parent=%proc.pname command=%proc.cmdline terminal=%proc.tty %container.info)"
      priority: WARNING
      tags: [filesystem, mitre_persistence]
```

And load it into Falco:

```sh
helm upgrade --namespace falco falco falcosecurity/falco --set tty=true -f ~/tmp/falco_custom_rules_cm.yaml
```

Falco pod(s) might need a few seconds to restart. Wait until they are ready:

```sh
kubectl wait pods --for=condition=Ready --all -n falco
```

> Now let's trigger our new rule

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then trigger our new rule:
```

```sh
kubectl exec -it $(kubectl get pods --selector=app=nginx -o name) -- touch /etc/test_file_for_falco_rule
```

> And look at the logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And look at the logs:
```

```sh
kubectl logs -l app.kubernetes.io/name=falco -n falco -c falco | grep Warning
```

You should see a log entry like the one below:

```plain
13:14:27.811647863: Warning File below /etc opened for writing (file=/etc/test_file_for_falco_rule pcmdline=containerd-shim -namespace k8s.io -id d5438fedb274ac82963d99987313dae8da512236ace2f70472a772d95090b607 -address /run/containerd/containerd.sock gparent=systemd ggparent=<NA> gggparent=<NA> evt_type=openat user=root user_uid=0 user_loginuid=-1 process=touch proc_exepath=/usr/bin/touch parent=containerd-shim command=touch /etc/test_file_for_falco_rule terminal=34816 container_id=bf74f1749e23 container_image=docker.io/library/nginx container_image_tag=latest container_name=nginx k8s_ns=default k8s_pod_name=nginx-7854ff8877-h97p4)
```

> ## Install Falcosidekick

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Deploy Falcosidekick
```

> XXX Missing

Reviewer: friendly reminder: do not forget this 👼

Author: Done!
